mindless
the very word is synonymous with not
thinking on automatic without creativity
without ideas
for the mind creates ideas it is the
maker of memes the crafter of knowledge
and the conjurer of creativity this sets
it apart from all other known systems in
the universe the automatons the mindless
truly serious attempts to emulate minds
began with the completely mindless but
have made almost no progress since
lovelace in the early 1800s and touring
in the early 1900s figured out brains
are physical and so their capacities
must be able to be simulated by a
universal computing machine and to
emulate a mind to simulate knowledge
creation is to be a mind is to create
knowledge for in principle it must be
the case that the hardware of a
universal computer would be able to
emulate a mind because the goings on in
a brain are not supernatural they are
governed by physical laws which are
themselves computable but no one has
been able to suggest even the first line
of code to instantiate an algorithm
which would constitute a genuine
universal knowledge creator for although
in principle any universal computer
which all of our computers our desktops
and laptops and mobile phones almost are
only their necessarily finite memories
limit their capacity to emulate
literally anything must be able to
replicate whatever it is that the brain
does it's just that no one knows how to
program what it is the brain does
but there must be some way of
representing what it does which is to
say some way of coding a system such
that it produces actual explanations
about the world
this capacity to explain would arise out
of it having preferences and therefore a
unique problem situation it would have
problems it wanted to solve and thus the
need to explain to itself satisfactorily
that some such solution worked to its
own standards present systems to improve
so-called artificial intelligence
resembles something quite the opposite
to a system striving to develop
solutions which would satisfy its own
standards instead almost all present
approaches are about improving the
capacity of sometimes very complex
systems to complete tasks and achieve
particular goals the goals set by the
programmer for example chess playing
computers are designed to win at chess
their task is to find the shortest
number of moves that will be effective
at beating an opponent or perhaps the
programmer might for fun design the
program to prolong a game against an
opponent for as long as possible but
that would be for the fun of the
programmer not the computer system that
is capable of doing it even if in some
sense we could link in parallel a chess
playing computer and a go playing
computer and a self-driving car and a
dancing robot and more besides so that
we had
all tasks that we knew humans could do
and then done better by some measure by
this massively parallel ai competent at
all these tasks
we would still not have gotten one jot
closer to creating a mind because that
system would be competent only at
performing tasks mindlessly achieving
the goals set for it not at inventing
new tasks and never doing anything
beyond its code nor presumably ever
achieving a goal not given to it by the
user competency is thus no measure of
genuine intelligence
that's more like the capacity to create
solutions by understanding a particular
problem that has never been encountered
possibly by anyone ever before this is
closer to a true measure of intelligence
or creativity not the ability to
competently perform a task the machine
has already been programmed to do all
known computers obey the instructions
they are given they follow their
programming a chess computer does not
object to playing chess should the
programmer be unable to explain how a
particular chess computer actually won
the game they programmed this is not a
measure of the intelligence or
creativity of the system it is a measure
of the programmers ignorance about their
own program it is not unusual for
inventors of ideas to not completely
understand them and their consequences
darwin did not understand evolution by
natural selection better than modern
evolutionary biologists it is quite the
opposite he did not even understand what
the unit of selection was so it is
unsurprising that with highly
sophisticated sometimes lengthy programs
with thousands of lines of code that
sometimes
people are unable to explain how they
work exactly what the consequences of
all that code is but that is not an
argument that the code itself is
creative the code is simply processed
line by line and not added to by the
computer itself a genuine mind does not
mindlessly complete tasks it does not
slavishly obey a mind is creative and
has the capacity to disobey a mind which
is to say a person has the capacity to
identify a problem and begin to work
towards a solution only to drop it
entirely and pursue some other more
interesting problem altogether in this
way a person does not have fixed goals
they have problems a mindless ai all
present computers and programs are not
like this
they are given tasks
tasks which help actual people and minds
to solve their problems this makes ai
and agi
almost exactly the opposite kinds of
thing
the former is a mindless automaton no
matter how complex or how many different
though finite number of tasks it has
been programmed to competently handle an
agi is a mindful and inherently
unpredictable person it has no finite
repertoire of tasks its repertoire is
infinite which is merely a logical
consequence of what it is a universal
explainer no matter the problem if it is
interested it can make guesses at
solutions by conjecturing possible
explanations it can have ideas and thus
make memes
the mindless cannot they merely
mindlessly complete tasks
tasks always set by others
agi and ai are the opposite of each
other for the same reason minds are the
opposite to mindless